The ventures I mentioned above (other than Crazy Egg) did lose me money, but they didn’t lose me a million dollars. They were just a lead-up to my million-dollar mistake.
Drum roll, please…
You would think that by then, I would have learned my lesson and stopped expanding into new industries, right? Well, think again. My business partner and I decided to use the majority of our money to expand into the web hosting arena.
Do you remember when Media Temple released its Grid System in 2006? We tried to release the same thing a year or two before they did. We were going to call the company Vision Web Hosting.
Here is where we messed up:
Location – we found 3 talented employees in Rockwall, Texas. Because they were based in Rockwall, we decided to set up base there, which was a bit far from Orange County, California. This made things hard to manage.
Clashing partners – two of these 3 people were married to each other. When you have this sort of dynamic, fights can ensue. To top it off, when all of the individuals live in the same house, things can get really messy.
Poor money management – none of these individuals were financially well off. Not only did my business partner and I had to support the business, but we also had to pay for their living expenses. This can really add up when you factor in 4 or 5 kids to be fed in addition to the team members.
Feature creep – the management team in Rockwall continually came up with ways to improve our product offering. This caused tons of additional expenses, and it delayed the launch of the company.
Poor communication – we were running Vision Web Hosting out of a 3,000-square-foot house in Rockwall. Eventually, we found out that these people didn’t own the house. The owner of the home wasn’t happy with the situation, so we had to purchase it from him for around $200,000.
We didn’t know when to say no – when you give people a bit, they start asking for a lot more. Sooner or later, we were paying for things like medical treatments, groceries, gas, car payments, etc.
Over a course of 2 years, this all added up to around a million dollars. The worse part about the experience was that our relationship with this team ended on bad terms.
Towards the end, my business partner and I had to tell our 3 partners in Rockwall that we couldn’t keep the business afloat. We were losing thousands of dollars every month, and it was adding up very quickly.
In the end, we decided that we would financially support them for a few months until they found jobs. During that time, my partner and I were selling all of the hardware we had bought for the project to recuperate some of our loses. The kicker was that in error, one of the companies that bought back some of our hardware sent a big check to Rockwall instead of Orange County.
Our partners in Rockwall fraudulently cashed the check, maliciously damaged the house, and left Rockwall without telling us.
Conclusion
Although I hope you won’t make big mistakes like I have made, chances are you will. But what separates the true entrepreneurs from the phony ones is that true entrepreneurs don’t give up.
If I had given up, I would have been a million dollars in debt, and I may have never paid my family members and the bank back. But because I kept on moving forward, things turned out well, and I was able to pay everyone back.
Don’t give up! Learn from your mistakes, and keep on pushing forward!