Conor McGregor, the Ultimate Fighting Championship superstar, was charged with three counts of assault and one count of criminal mischief in New York City early Friday after he injured someone by throwing a hand truck at a bus at Barclays Center, the police said.
McGregor turned himself in to the police on Thursday night, according to a police spokesman.
The police had earlier said that McGregor was a “person of interest” in the matter and that they wanted to question him.
McGregor, accompanied by about 10 others, entered the Brooklyn arena around 1:30 p.m. and “threw a hand truck at a bus, causing an injury to an individual on the bus,” Sophia Mason, a spokeswoman for the New York Police Department, said earlier in an email. She described the injury as minor. McGregor was wanted for questioning, but no arrest warrant had been issued.
Barclays Center is hosting UFC 223, which had its media day on Thursday. McGregor was not scheduled to fight.
A video taken by Felice Herrig, a U.F.C. fighter, showed McGregor running while holding a large object, then toppling nearby garbage cans. The police said McGregor had thrown “various items,” then fled before officers arrived.
Dana White, the U.F.C. president, told ESPN that the injured person was Michael Chiesa, a fighter who was left with cuts on his face and was taken to a hospital. McGregor and his entourage were allowed in by a credentialed website, White said.
 “They stormed the building, got down to the loading docks where the fighters were getting on buses and started to attack the buses with trash cans, dollies,” White told ESPN. “This is the most disgusting thing that has ever happened in the history of this company.”
In a statement released late Thursday, the U.F.C. said McGregor; another fighter, Artem Lobov; and more than a dozen others had “vandalized the vehicle that contained a number of athletes competing at the event taking place this weekend.”
“The organization deems today’s disruption completely unacceptable and is currently working on the consequences that will follow,” the statement said. Lobov was removed from the competition schedule, and “individuals involved in the incident are not welcome” at either the weigh-in on Friday or the event itself on Saturday.
A spokeswoman for McGregor did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. The fighter, who won the U.F.C. lightweight championship in 2016, has expressed anger that he will be stripped of that title. White said it would be given to the winner of a fight Saturday between Khabib Nurmagomedov and Max Holloway.
McGregor, 29, has not fought since August, when he held his own but lost in a boxing match against Floyd Mayweather Jr. that was a ratings juggernaut. Since then, he has picked up a $540 fine for going 98 miles an hour in a 62 m.p.h. zone; told those who have threatened his life to “come and get me”; and jumped into a cage to celebrate the victory of a friend, confronting and shoving a referee in the process. He denied reports in British and Irish tabloids that he was involved in a scrap at an Irish bar in November.
