Boys and girls at Hampton Middle School in Georgia were instructed by their teacher to write letters to lawmakers calling for stricter gun control laws. 

"You are trying to persuade lawmakers to have stricter gun laws to help prevent another school shooting from taking place," the assignment declared. "For this assignment, you are writing a letter to the lawmakers of the United States. The purpose of this letter is to pressure lawmakers to have stricter gun laws in the United States.

Blue Lives Matter obtained a copy of the social studies assignment from a police officer whose son was in the classroom.

"I asked him what he had for homework that night, and he said he had to write a paper on gun control," William Lee told Blue Lives Matter. "I looked at it, and I told my son, 'No, you're not doing that assignment.' Then I emailed his teacher the next day and told him that my son would not be writing that."

Good for Officer Lee!

The teacher told Officer Lee his son would be excused from the lesson and would not be penalized.

I reached out to Henry County Schools and they tell me the assignment was not a part of any approved curriculum.

"We would never approve of a politically biased assignment or directive given by a teacher," the district spokesman told me.

He assured me the letters were not sent and there was never any intent to send them.

"This activity took the wrong approach in limiting the ability of students to share any thoughts outside of what was directed of them when the subject elicits many different viewpoints from people, including students," the spokesman told me.

Henry County School, he said, does not advocate for or against gun control and had the lesson been submitted for approval -- it would not have been approved.

"It is unfortunate that this isolated incident occurred, but we are appreciative of those individuals who brought it to our attention so we could take corrective action and stop it from continuing further," the spokesman said.

The school district spokesman said the teacher has been spoken to and they tell me this will not happen again.

Let's hope not.

Public school is supposed to be about education -- not indoctrination.